Part A
======
Jungian:
  There are universal archetypes in myth. These are the dreamer, the 
anima/animus, the shadow, and the self.
Levi-Straussian:
  A structural approach to myth that focuses on opposing forces. Myth serves to
progress the awareness of these to their resolution.
Socialogical/Idealogical:
  An approach to myth that looks at it from its appeal to subgroups. Myth 
will be acceptable to both classes, but will subtly show preference for one 
ideological view over another, imposing this perspective on society at large.


Part B
======
  The Epic of Gilgamesh, at its heart, depicts a conflict between opposing 
forces of nature and culture when looked at through a Levi-Straussian 
structural approach. Gilgamesh is described as being the greatest of all men,
and is introduced as being far on the side of culture on the spectrum. Though
he is described as being beautiful, he is selfish. To balance this, the gods
create Enkidu, a being that rivalled Gilgamesh in strength, but instead leaning
towards nature. 

  The harlot that is sent to Enkidu by the people acts as a mediator, exposing
Enkidu to aspects of culture. Through this encounter, Enkidu becomes civilized. 
This transition towards civilization for him is then followed by his encounter 
with Gilgamesh. They fight, and in so doing, form respect for each other. This 
calms Giglamesh's selfishness by exposing him to a companion that helps mediate 
him to increasing himself in nature. Following their encounter, Gilgamesh stops 
raping women as he once did. 

  Aside from the nature/culture conflict, there is also the conflict between
mortality and immortality. When Gilgamesh and Enkidu slay the Bull from Heaven,
the gods decide that one of them must die. When Enkidu is choosen for this, 
Gilgamesh becomes obsessed with the goal of avoiding the same fate. His journey 
leads him to Utnapishtim, a man who has accomplished exactly what Giglamesh 
hopes to achieve. The trial of going through a week without sleep is what 
mediates between these extremes for Gilgamesh. Utnapishtim convinces Gilgamesh 
that he cannot escape death, and that he must accept his own mortality. This 
prompts a change in Giglamesh, who returns as a great ruler that would go on to
build walls to protect his city of Uruk. In the end, his journey and encounters
with mediating figures help develop him into a character that is balanced in
both culture and nature.
