Part A
======
  Ray states that American heroes come in two flavors: the official and the
outlaw. In "The Thematic Paradigm", Ray states that the official hero represents
traditional values, while the outlaw hero is above the law, motivated by his own
understanding of right and wrong. This stems from America's roots as a country
that once adhered strictly to a policy of extreme neutralism prior to World War
II, and the shift in values that came thereafter. The official hero embodies
these traditional values, while the outlaw hero is a manifestation of the
post-neutral society.


Part B
======
  The heroes in Casablanca described by Ray differ greatly from those we see in
Hero. They share similar ideals when looking at them from a high level, but
their motivations and backgrounds are far from similar. These differences are
what cause their characters to differ so sharply from each other.

  Laszlo and Rick are just like Nameless, Broken Sword, Falling
Snow, and Long Sky in that they express interest in rebelling against a force
that is attempting to dominate others. However, the heroes of Casablanca are
motivated by their love of freedom, while the primary drive for the heroes of
Hero is the desire for vengeance. Laszlo and Rick were both from America, which
idolized freedom.

  One major difference between the two sets of heroes is that the heroes of
Casablanca go through with their plans in the end, and fly Laszlo out of
Casablanca. Nameless, however, decides to abandon his mission after coming to
understand why Broken Sword prioritized the life of the king of Qin over his
own desires.

  The foundational myths of the America and China also resulted in differences
in how the heroes of these two films were depicted. America was founded on
principles of neutralism and freedom. China, however, was founded under the idea
of unity, that they were all one nation under heaven.

  Another interesting aspect is how the characters make use of their reputation.
The heroes of Casablanca draw much of their power from their reputation and the
weight of their name. Interestingly enough, the heroes of Hero sully their own
names in order to accomplish their goals. Broken Sword, Sky, and Snow all fake
defeat and death, and Nameless chooses the death of a traitor over accomplishing
his mission and goal.
