Part A
======
  The vampire myth draws its roots the fear that societies' had that cadavers
could return from the grave to terrorize the living. It was seen as a perversion
of Christianity's belief in resurrection. The modern day interpretation of
vampires originates from Bram Stoker's Dracula.
  The Frankenstein myth comes from the fear that the technology created by
mankind will one day replace or dominate it.

Part B
======
  The vampire and Frankenstein myths are both products of society's innate
anxieties. These myths serve to express these anxieties and help society
reconcile them. Through these myths, society is able to reach a resolution of
these fears.

  Following World War I, society had to cope with many new anxieties that it had
never faced before. Fears of racial contamination and challenges to traditional
gender roles and sexual mores were eventually expressed through the medium of
vampire myths. The attribution of the label "vampire" to capitalists and lawyers
in modern day America also highlights the almost-paradoxical view on American
values. Professions such as these are both admirable and repulsive at the same
time.

  The Frankenstein Complex draws its name from Mary Shelly's famous book. The
subtitle "A Modern Prometheus" is aptly chosen. Prometheus gave fire to humanity
after stealing it from the gods. The gift he gave, was something forbidden.
Likewise, Victor Frankenstein also transgressed his boundaries and ventured into
the domain of God. For this, he was punished and suffered a great deal.

  The Frankenstein myth raises attention to society's innate fear of the
technology that we create. There is an inherent anxiety that the machines we
create will one day overthrow or replace us. What makes this myth so unnatural
is how it removes women from the equation. Creation propagates without any
feminine aspect, giving it a masculine bias. Much of this anxiety and
unnaturalness would be alleviated if a feminine aspect were to be introduced
into the picture.
